---
layout: post
category : to-do
tagline: "My list of things to do in 2015."
tags : [to-do]
---

My professional growth goals for 2015.

### Write a Visual Studio Extension ###

Find a pain point within Visual Studio. Automate its solution. 

- Code extraction to a new class/file. 
- variable name de-Hungarian-ifyer.

### Write a Google Chrome Extension ###

Find a pain point, and automate its solution. Find a service with an API that you can automate some small workflow.

### Write a Chocolatey Package ###

- Mirth 3.0

### Pick a Non-Bootstrap Blog Theme/Presentation###

Bootstrap is too heavy. Perhaps [Pure CSS](http://purecss.io/).

### Learn and Build With a New Language ###

I'm going to continue stretching out with programming languages that I don't use 9-5, and find a small project to learn with:

- Python
- Dart
- Go
- more automation with PowerShell
- Continue with Nodejs, Express, and Jade.

### Build One Of The Longstanding Project Ideas ###

Most devs (right?) have a list somewhere of projects that they'd like to start.

- An HL7 engine. 
- IIS Log parser & searcher


### Improve My Automation & Cmd Line Skills ###

The saying *if you do it more than once, automate it* is the big motivator here. On a [recent ATP, they discussed desktop window management and organization](https://overcast.fm/podcasts/episode/2701876337436#t=5571), and that lead me to compare what other devs are doing with how I typically work. I realized I ought to be automating tasks more, and keeping my workstation more organized and tasks repeatable.

PowerShell will be a large part of performing these types of tasks in a Windows environment (i.e. Boxstarter, Chocolatey, etc.).

I'm using Git via [GitHub For Windows](https://windows.github.com/) and Visual Studio integration - mostly to local, BitBucket, and GitHub repos. I see devs writing how they go straight to the Git Shell, and kind of ignore IDE integration. I don't fully understand the reasons why. What am I missing? IDE source control integration is called a crutch, inflexible, etc. Maybe it's because I'm mostly using Visual Studio, and haven't stretched or exercised outside that IDE very much.  Maybe it's because I'm using VS so much that I haven't needed to learn basic Git CL commands. It's not like the integration is slowing me down and forcing me to use my mouse or something like that. I use keyboard shortcuts to access the integrated Git client. This reminded me of this [Hanselminutes podcast on DVCS at the 28m mark](http://hanselminutes.com/231/eric-sink-on-distributed-version-control-systems) where they comment that most programmers use source control either integrated or command-line, and rarely mix. Let's pretend both methods were functionally equivalent - what would the benefit of using the CL be over the IDE integration? Portability of skills?   

### Test For Certification ###

I've been studying for SQL Server 2012/2014 exams. It's time to complete them. This will help if I transition to a more DBA'ish role in the future.  

### Organize a Community Event ###

A [SQL Saturday](https://www.sqlsaturday.com) or DIY event. I want to build up some experience before launching a similar new brand dev conference. Big vision, here. 
